Skip to
content
Kaggle

Create
Home

Competitions

Benchmarks

Game Arena

Data Hub

More

Your Work

Viewed


NeurIPS 2024 - Lux AI Season 3


Frog Parade's Solution


Orbit Wars


NVIDIA Nemotron Model Reasoning Challenge


How are the Top Players creating their strategy??

Edited


Getting Started


LB 1000+ : Search + Learned Value Function


Orbit Wars | Target score: 2000.4 4f3559


Orbit Wars | Target score: 2000.4

Bookmarks


Orbit Wars


View Active Events

Search

Lux AI Challenge · Featured Simulation Competition · a year ago
NeurIPS 2024 - Lux AI Season 3
Deep space exploration!


NeurIPS 2024 - Lux AI Season 3

Late Submission
Overview
Welcome to Season 3! The goal of this competition is to create and/or train AI bots to play a novel multi-agent 1v1 game against other submitted agents. We hope to create a fun multi-agent competition for all in addition to advancing research into AI, imitation/reinforcement learning, and meta learning. Learn more about the competition specifics by reading below!

Start

Dec 10, 2024
Close

Mar 25, 2025
Merger & Entry
Description
Evaluation
Each day your team is able to submit up to 5 agents (bots) to the competition. Each submission will play Episodes (games) against other bots on the ladder that have a similar skill rating. Over time skill ratings will go up with wins or down with losses and evened out with ties. To reduce the number of bots playing and increase the number of episodes each team participates in, we only track the latest 2 submissions and use those for final submissions.

Every bot submitted will continue to play episodes until the end of the competition, with newer bots playing a much more frequent number of episodes. On the leaderboard only your best scoring bot will be shown, but you can track the progress of all of your submissions on your Submissions page.

Each Submission has an estimated Skill Rating which is modeled by a Gaussian N(μ,σ2) where μ is the estimated skill and σ represents the uncertainty of that estimate which will decrease over time.

When you upload a Submission, we first play a Validation Episode where that Submission plays against copies of itself to make sure it works properly. If the Episode fails, the Submission is marked as Error and you can download the agent logs to help figure out why. Otherwise, we initialize the Submission with μ0=600 and it joins the pool of All Submissions for ongoing evaluation.

We repeatedly run Episodes from the pool of All Submissions, and try to pick Submissions with similar ratings for fair matches. Newly submitted agents will be given an increased rate in the number of episodes run to give you faster feedback.

Ranking System

After an Episode finishes, we'll update the Rating estimate for all Submissions in that Episode. If one Submission won, we'll increase its μ and decrease its opponent's μ -- if the result was a draw, then we'll move the two μ values closer towards their mean. The updates will have magnitude relative to the deviation from the expected result based on the previous μ values, and also relative to each Submission's uncertainty σ. We also reduce the σ terms relative to the amount of information gained by the result. The score by which your bot wins or loses an Episode does not affect the skill rating updates.

Final Evaluation At the submission deadline on March 24, 2025, additional submissions will be locked. From March 24, 2025 for approximately two weeks, we will continue to run games. At the conclusion of this period, the leaderboard is final.

Timeline
December 9, 2024 - Start Date.

March 3, 2025 - Entry Deadline. You must accept the competition rules before this date in order to compete.

March 3, 2025 - Team Merger Deadline. This is the last day participants may join or merge teams.

March 24, 2025 - Final Submission Deadline.

March 10, 2025 to March 24, 2025 - We will continue to run games. At the conclusion of this period, the leaderboard is final.

All deadlines are at 11:59 PM UTC on the corresponding day unless otherwise noted. The competition organizers reserve the right to update the contest timeline if they deem it necessary.

Prizes
Main Prizes
Monetary prizes are distributed to the top 8 competitors on the leaderboard at the end of the competition

1st Place: $10,000
2nd Place: $8,000
3rd Place: $7,000
4th-8th Place: $5,000
Sprint Prizes
At the end of each month of active competition*, the top 2 on the leaderboard will receive the Lux AI Challenge Sprint award for developing strong bots early on! This award can only be won once per team and if a team in the top 2 has already won the Sprint award, it will be given to the next highest ranking team who has not won the award. All teams are automatically entered into this competition.

In addition to the Sprint Award, teams will also be awarded competition t-shirts from competition organizers.

To pick the top 2 on the leaderboard, we will check the state of the leaderboard at 11:59PM UTC on the last day of each month.

Getting Started
All instructions in addition to the starter kits you need to start writing a bot and submit them to the competition are in this GitHub page.

Make sure to also read the competition specs below to learn how this year’s design works!

Lux AI Season 3 Specifications
For documentation on the API, see this document. To get started developing a bot, see our Github.

We are always looking for feedback and bug reports, if you find any issues with the code, specifications etc. please ping us on Discord or post a GitHub Issue. We will be fixing clear critical bugs as found. There will be a maximum of 2 balance patches, approximately one after 2 weeks of competition and one after 3 weeks of competition.

Background
With the help 600+ space organizations, Mars has been successfully terraformed successfully. Colonies have been established successfully by multiple space organizations thanks to the rapidly growing lichen fields on the planet. The introduction of an atmosphere has enabled colonists to start thinking about the future, beyond Mars. Mysteriously, new deep-space telescopes launched from Mars revealed some ancient architectures floating beyond the solar system, hidden in a midst of asteroids and nebula gas. Perhaps they were relics of a previous sentient species?

Seeking to learn more about the secrets of the universe, new expeditions of ships were set out into deep space to explore these ancient relics and study them. What will they discover, which expedition will be remembered for the rest of history for unlocking the secrets of the relics?

Environment
In the Lux AI Challenge Season 3, two teams compete against each other on a 2D map in a best of 5 match sequence (called a game) with each match lasting 100 time steps. Both teams have a pool of units they can control to gain points around the map while also trying to prevent the other team from doing the same.

Unique to Season 3 is how various game mechanics and parameters are randomized at the start of each game and remain the same between matches in one game. Some mechanics/paramters include the map terrain/generation, how much units can see on the map, how might they be blocked by map features, etc. Each match is played with fog of war, where each team can only see what their own units can see, with everything else being hidden. Given that some mechanics are randomized between games, the specs will clearly document how they are randomized and what the possible values are. There is also a summary table of every game parameter that is randomized between games in the Game Parameters section below.

A core objective of this game is a balanced strategy of exploration and exploitation. It is recommended to explore more in the first match or two before leveraging gained knowledge about the map and opponent behavior to win the latter matches.

Map
The map is a randomly generated 2D grid of size 24x24. There are several core features that make up the map: Empty Tiles, Asteroid Tiles, Nebula Tiles, Energy Nodes, and Relic Nodes. Notably, in a game, the map is never regenerated completely between matches. Whatever is the state of the map at the end of one match is what is used for the next match.

Empty Tiles
These are empty tiles in space without anything special about them. Units and nodes can be placed/move onto these tiles.

Asteroid Tiles
Asteroid tiles are impassable tiles that block anything from moving/spawning onto them. These tiles might move around over time during the map in a symmetric fashion. Sometimes asteroid tiles might move on top of existing units. In the game the unit is not removed as a result of this and can still take actions and move around provided there is an non asteroid tile adjacent to it.

Nebula Tiles
Nebula tiles are passable tiles with a number of features. These tiles might move around over time during the map in a symmetric fashion.

Vision Reduction: Nebula tiles can reduce/block vision of units. Because of vision reduction it is even possible for a unit to be unable to see itself while still being able to move! See Vision section below for more details on how team vision is determined. All nebula tiles have the same vision reduction value called params.nebula_tile_vision_reduction which is randomized from 0 to 3.

Energy Reduction: Nebula tiles can reduce the energy of units that end their turn on them. All nebula tiles have the same energy reduction value called params.nebula_tile_energy_reduction.

Energy Nodes
Energy nodes are mysterious objects that emit energy fields which can be harvested by units. These nodes might move around over time during the map in a symmetric fashion. In code, what actually occurs in each game is energy nodes are randomly generated on the map symmetrically and a random function is generated for each node. Each energy node's function is a function of distance. The energy value of a tile on a map is determined to be the sum of the energy node functions applied to the distance between tile and each node.

Relic Nodes
Relic nodes are objects in space that enable ships to go near it to gain team points. These relic nodes however are ancient and thus fragmented. As a result, only certain tiles near the relic nodes when a friendly ship is on it will gain points. The tiles that yield points are always hidden and can only be discovered by trial and error by moving around the relic nodes. Relic node positions themselves can be observed if withins sensor range. The tiles around relic nodes can overlap with tiles of other relic nodes but will not yield extra points if that occurs and is treated as one tile.

In code, a random 5x5 configuration / mask centered on the relic node is generated indicating which tiles yield points and which don't. Multiple ships can stack on one tile but will only yield at most one point per tile. Note that ship stacking can be risky due to the sapping action (See Sap Actions section below).

Units
Units in the game are ships that can move one tile in 5 directions (center, up, right, down, left) and perform a ranged energy sapping action. Units can overlap with other friendly units if they move onto the same tile. Units have a energy property which determines whether they can perform actions and start with 100 energy and can have a max of 400 energy. Energy is recharged via the energy field of the map. They always spawn on one of the two corners of the map depending on which team they are on.

Note that nebula tiles and energy fields can modify the energy of a unit when it is on that tile. However they can never reduce the energy of a unit below 0, only opposing units can do that which will then remove the unit from the game to be respawned at a later timestep. Unit IDs range from 0 to params.max_units - 1 for each team, and are recycled when units are spawned in if a previous one was removed.

Move Actions
All move actions except moving center cost params.unit_move_cost energy to perform. Moving center is always free (a zero action). Attempting to move off the edge of the map results in no movement occuring but energy is still consumed. Units cannot move onto tiles with an impassible feature like an asteroid tile.

Sap Actions
The sap action lets a unit target a specific tile on the map within a range called params.unit_sap_range and reduces the energy of each opposition unit on the target tile by params.unit_sap_cost while also costing unit_sap_cost energy to use. Moreover, any opposition units on the 8 adjacent tiles to the target tile are also sapped and their energy is reduced by params.unit_sap_cost * params.unit_sap_dropoff_factor.

Sap actions are submitted to the game engine / environment as a delta x and delta y value relative to the unit's current position. The delta x and delta y value magnitudes must both be <= params.unit_sap_range, so the sap range is a square around the unit.

Generally sap actions are risky since a single miss means your ships lose energy while the opponent does not. The area of effect can mitigate this risk somewhat depending on game parameters. Sap actions can however prove very valuable when opposition ships are heavily stacked and get hit as sapping the stacked tile hits every ship on the tile.

Vision
A team's vision is the combined vision of all units on that team. Team vision is essentially a boolean mask / matrix over the 2D map indicating whether that tile's information is visible to the team. In this game, you can think of each unit having an "eye in the sky" sattelite that is capturing information about the units surroundings, but this sattelite has reduced accuracy the farther away the tile is from the unit.

To determine which map tiles are visible to a team, we compute a vision power value for each tile on the map. For each unit on a team, we check each tile within the unit's sensor range and add 1 + params.unit_sensor_range - min(dx, dy) to the vision power map at tile (x+dx, y+dy) where (x,y) is the unit's position and (dx, dy) is the offset from the unit's position and abs(dx) <= params.unit_sensor_range and abs(dy) <= params.unit_sensor_range.

Nebula tiles have a vision reduction value of params.nebula_tile_vision_reduction. This number is reduced from every tile's vision power if that tile is a nebula tile.

For example, naturally without any nebula tiles the vision power values look like below and create a square of visibility around the unit.



When a unit is near a nebula tile, it can't see details about some nebula tiles, but it can see tiles beyond nebula tiles. Here the unit has a sensor range of 2 and the nebula tile vision reduction value is 2. It can see itself since the vision power centered at the unit is 3, but it can't see other nebula tiles since they are too far or the nebula tile vision reduction reduces the vision power to 0 or less.



When a unit is inside a nebula tile, if the nebula vision reduction is powerful enough (here the nebula vision reduction is 3, unit sensor range is 2), the unit cannot even see itself or any other nebula tiles.



Unit vision can overlap and increase the vision power linearly, which can help handle the situations like above when you cannot see anything. Below the nebula vision reduction is 3 and the unit sensor range is 2, and now some of the nebula tiles are visible thanks to the overlapping vision of two units.



Collisions / Energy Void Fields
In close quarters, units can impact each other in two ways, via direct collisions or by being adjacent to each other and sapping energy via their energy void fields.

In the event of two or more units from opposing teams occupy the same tile at the end of a turn, the team with the highest aggregate energy among its units on that tile survive, while the units of the opposing teams are removed from the game. If it is a tie, all units are removed from the game.

Furthermore, each unit generates an "energy void" field around itself that affects all cardinally (up, right, down left) adjacent opposition units. To determine how exactly each unit is affected by these energy void fields, we compute a 2D map for each team indicating the energy void strength at each tile. A unit contributes to tiles adjacent to itself a energy void strength equal to the total amount of energy the unit has at the start of the turn multiplied by params.unit_energy_void_factor rounded down. After a energy void map is computed for each team, a unit's energy is reduced by the energy void strength of the tile it is on divided by the total number of units on that tile. Note that units removed due to collisions do not contribute to the energy void field.

The energy void fields generally encourage stacking units to better spread out energy sapped by energy void fields of opposition units.

Win Conditions
To win the game, the team must have won the most matches out of the 5 match sequence.

To win a match, the team must have gained more relic points than the other team at the end of the match. If the relic points scores are tied, then the match winner is decided by who has more total unit energy. If that is also tied then the winner is chosen at random.

Match Resolution Order
At each time step of a match, we run the following steps in order:

Move all units that have enough energy to move
Execute the sap actions of all units that have enough energy to do so
Resolve collisions and apply energy void fields
Update the energy of all units based on their position (energy fields and nebula tiles)
Spawn units for all teams. Remove units that have less than 0 energy.
Determine the team vision / sensor masks for all teams and mask out observations accordingly
Environment objects like asteroids/nebula tiles/energy nodes move around in space
Compute new team points
Note that each match runs for params.max_steps_in_match steps and you take that many actions that affect the game. However, you will actually receive params.max_steps_in_match + 1 frames of observations since the very first frame will either be empty or the previous match's final observation (actions on these observations will not do anything).

Game Parameters
The full set of game parameters can be found here in the codebase.

Randomized Game Parameters / Map Generation
There are a number of randomized game paramteres which can modify and even disable/enable certain game mechanics. None of these game parameters are changed between matches in a game. The majority of these parameters are also not given to the teams themselves and must be discovered through exploration.

env_params_ranges = dict(
    map_type=[1],
    unit_move_cost=list(range(1, 6)), # list(range(x, y)) = [x, x+1, x+2, ... , y-1]
    unit_sensor_range=list(range(2, 5)),
    nebula_tile_vision_reduction=list(range(0,4)),
    nebula_tile_energy_reduction=[0, 0, 10, 25],
    unit_sap_cost=list(range(30, 51)),
    unit_sap_range=list(range(3, 8)),
    unit_sap_dropoff_factor=[0.25, 0.5, 1],
    unit_energy_void_factor=[0.0625, 0.125, 0.25, 0.375],
    # map randomizations
    nebula_tile_drift_speed=[-0.05, -0.025, 0.025, 0.05],
    energy_node_drift_speed=[0.01, 0.02, 0.03, 0.04, 0.05],
    energy_node_drift_magnitude=list(range(3, 6))
)
These parameter ranges (and other parameters) are subject to change in the beta phase of this competition as we gather feedback and data.

Using the Visualizer
The visualizer will display the state of the environment at time step t out of some max number indicated in the page under the map. Actions taken at timestep t will affect the state of the game and be reflected in the next timestep t+1.

There are also a few important keyboard shortcuts that can be used to toggle various visualizations, namely

s: Sensor range of all units
e: The current energy field of the map
r: The relic node tiles of the map
Events
We will live stream events on our Twitch. There will be sprint livestreams as well as a finals event which happens after the final evaluation period is over.

Make sure to follow our social media as well to be notified of future events and when we go live!

Discord
X/Twitter
Twitch
Youtube
Citation
Stone Tao, Akarsh Kumar, Bovard Doerschuk-Tiberi, Isabelle Pan, Addison Howard, and Hao Su. NeurIPS 2024 - Lux AI Season 3. https://kaggle.com/competitions/lux-ai-season-3, 2024. Kaggle.


Cite
Competition Host
Lux AI Challenge

Prizes & Awards
$50,000

Awards Points & Medals

Participation
3,849 Entrants

821 Participants

701 Teams

1,202 Submissions

Tags
Reinforcement Learning
Artificial Intelligence
Games
Simulations
Custom Metric
Table of Contents
